docs: Debugging instructions using IDEs (#1309)
FuelLabs/fuel-core: docs/developers/debugging.md

Users can define environment variables by configuring their shell or setting them inside the current terminal.

Additionally, users can add a `.env` file to the root directory of their local copy of their Fuel node (or wherever the working directory is). Using a `.env` file requires compiling the client with the `env` feature. This can be accomplished by including `env` in the list of features or by passing the `--all-features` flag. 

Using environment variables for CLI arguments allows these values to be reused across IDEs and IDE configurations seamlessly.

## P2P Network

When running the client with the P2P service enabled, i.e., building the binary with the `p2p` feature and supplying the runtime argument `--enable-p2p`, the client will connect to a Fuel network. This requires additional CLI arguments, including the `--keypair` and `--network` arguments.

A key pair can be generated by running the utility binary `fuel-core-keygen`:

```bash
cargo run --bin fuel-core-keygen new
```

> The resulting key pair printed to the console contains an address and secret. The `address` can be provided to the `--keypair` argument when running the node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The resulting key pair printed to the console contains an address and secret. The `secret` can be provided to the `--keypair` argument when running the node.
```

Author: Thanks for the clarification!

> The `--network` argument identifies the name of the network to join. The network name is used during peer discovery. For example, users can specify `--network beta3-prod` to join the Beta 3 Production network. Similarly, setting the environment variable `NETWORK="beta3-prod"` will produce the same result.

Author: Question just for my own understanding: If the names don't match, will the peers even discover each other? Is it not considered a separate network?

> The `--network` argument identifies the name of the network to join. The network name is used during peer discovery. For example, users can specify `--network beta3-prod` to join the Beta 3 Production network. Similarly, setting the environment variable `NETWORK="beta3-prod"` will produce the same result.

Reviewer 2: Nope, they will not discover each other. The connection will be reset during authentication process before we started exchange data.

The `--network` argument identifies the name of the network to join. The network name is used during peer discovery. For example, users can specify `--network beta-4` to join the Beta 4 network. Similarly, setting the environment variable `NETWORK="beta-4"` will produce the same result.

For more information about client networking, see the Fuel guide on [running a node](https://docs-hub.vercel.app/guides/running-a-node/).

## Recommended IDEs

During development, it is recommended to delegate the execution of Cargo instructions to an IDE and connect the application to the IDE's debugger, instead of running these instructions manually.

Recommended IDEs include:
- CLion
- Visual Studio Code

## CLion

### Prerequisites

Running Fuel Core with CLion requires the official JetBrains Rust plugin. Find the Rust plugin by navigating to CLion's Plugin menu, entering "Rust" in the search. Install it by clicking "Install".

### Create A Run Configuration

1. In the top-right corner of the CLion window, click on the configurations dropdown menu and select "Edit Configurations..."
2. In the "Run/Debug Configurations" window, click on the "+" button and select "Cargo"

> 3. In the "Name" field, give your configuration a descriptive name, such as "Run Beta 3"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. In the "Name" field, give your configuration a descriptive name, such as "Run Fuel Client"
```

Just to remove the need to update the docs. Maybe is better to set a generic name

Author: Yep, that makes sense 👍

> 4. In the "Command" field, enter `run --all-features --bin fuel-core -- run <ARGUMENTS>`, where `<ARGUMENTS>` represents the desired CLI arguments. Refer to the CLI documentation for guidance on which options and arguments to use.

Reviewer 3: I think we could add the example `--db-type in-memory` just to avoid errors.

Author: I added a Common Issues section to mention using `--db-type in-memory` in case of some errors.

5. If you use environment variables for configuration (as indicated in the CLI documentation), you can set them in the "Environment variables" section. Enter the variables and their values as needed. It is recommended to set the `RUST_LOG` environment variable to either `info` or `debug`.
6. Click "Apply" or "OK" to save your run configuration.

### Example Configuration

> ![clion_configuration.png](assets/clion_configuration.png)

Reviewer 3: Following the steps, I had to do;
5. Select the workspace folder
6. Remove on the before start section the build action

Reviewer 3: Once I try to run it throws the error: 
```
ERROR fuel_core::cli: 57: Unable to load .env environment variables: path not found. Please check that you have created a .env file in your working directory.
```

Author: Thanks for going through the steps!

I think it would be a good idea for me to add a quick line adding the workspace folder. Usually, CLion should populate this line for you to your repository root (don't change it to what's exactly in the example!) But if that is missing for whatever reason, it would be helpful to know that you should set this to the root yourself. I see that I omitted that instruction.

The "Before start" settings are optional. CLion adds "Build" by default, but it's okay because `cargo run` does a build by default. I will add a note on these settings too.

Author: > Once I try to run it throws the error:
> 
> ```
> ERROR fuel_core::cli: 57: Unable to load .env environment variables: path not found. Please check that you have created a .env file in your working directory.
> ```

This is actually a new feature and it's deliberate. It simply means the client is expecting you to provide a `.env` file (probably because you compiled with `--all-features`), but it didn't find it. Simply add a `.env` file in the root of your repo with your specific configuration values, and you're good to go.

Reviewer 3: Yeah, it worked even with the error. The real error was on the database folder: 

```
thread 'main' panicked at 'source slice length (64) does not match destination slice length (32)', <>/.cargo/registry/src/index.crates.io-6f17d22bba15001f/fuel-types-0.36.0/src/array_types.rs:389:16

### Running and Debugging

1. With your configuration selected in the dropdown menu, click on the Run button to start running your Fuel client node.
2. Alternatively, click on the Debug button to start your client node in debug mode.
3. Set breakpoints in the code where inspections are necessary. CLion will halt execution at these breakpoints, allowing variable inspection and step-by-step code execution.

## Visual Studio Code

### Prerequisites

Running Fuel Core with Visual Studio Code requires the CodeLLDB extension. Find the CodeLLDB extension by navigating to the "Extensions" tab and searching "CodeLLDB". Install it by clicking "Install".

### Create A Run Configuration

1. In VS Code, click on the "Run and Debug" icon in the left sidebar.
2. VS Code will offer to create a `launch.json` file to configure how your client node is run. Clicking this will prompt you to select a debugger. Select the CodeLLDB debugger to proceed. VS Code will generate a `launch.json` file for you.
3. In the "Run and Debug" menu, click the dropdown menu and select "Add Configuration..."
4. In the `"type"` field, enter `"lldb"`. In the `"request"` field, enter `"launch"`.

> 5. In the `"name"` field, give your configuration a descriptive name, such as `"Run Beta 3"`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. In the `"name"` field, give your configuration a descriptive name, such as `"Run FuelCore"`
```

6. In the `"args"` array nested under `"cargo"`, enter the following arguments: `"run"`, `"--all-features"`, `"--bin"`, `"fuel-core"`, `"--"`, `"run"`, `<ARGUMENTS>`, where `<ARGUMENTS>` is a list of CLI values and arguments encapsulated by quotes. Refer to the CLI documentation for guidance on which options and arguments to use.
7. Save these changes made to your `launch.json` file.

### Example Configuration

> ![vs_code_configuration.png](assets/vs_code_configuration.png)

Reviewer 3: We could just past here the plain json, to make it easier to copy and paste

Reviewer 3: I was not able to make the debug work, it looks like the command never finishes. It starts but not finishes.

My config;
```
[
    "run",
    "--all-features",
    "--bin",
    "fuel-core",
    "--",
    "run",
    "--ip", "0.0.0.0",
    "--port", "4004",
    "--db-type", "in-memory",
    "--utxo-validation",
    "--vm-backtrace",
    "--poa-interval-period",
    "30s"
]
```

Author: Luiz and I discussed this specific issue over a call: It appears that the client is starting correctly, and producing the expected output in the terminal, but the VS Code debugger is not correctly attaching to the running process. Luiz and I will spend some time independently looking into this.

Author: I updated the example with a more reliable config that users can copy + paste to get started.
